Upgrading Legacy Systems
------------------------

As changes to the application server, packages, scripts and various source code templates occur it is going to
be necessary to upgrade an existing system in order to reap the benefits of improvements that have been made.

Unfortunately some changes are easier than others to add to an existing system so some care must be taken when
upgrading to decide exactly what changes are necessary to be made to an existing application.

Keeping a record of Repository changes
--------------------------------------

An upgrade will start with either a "git pull" or a "git fetch upstream" (the latter in the case of working on
a forked repository as described in the "Development Cycle Steps" document). It is highly recommended that one
keeps a record of the repository changes as reported by "git" in order to be able to carefully review them.

Clear descriptions of each of the different types of changes and how to incorporate them into existing systems
follows.

Basic Changes to the Application Server and FCGI User Interface
---------------------------------------------------------------

After updating the repository files (via "git") the first thing to do is to change to the "src" directory then
run the script "config" (use "./config" for Linux). Although it is most likely that this script will have zero
effect it is possible that it might need to be run (to know whether this step needs to be performed just check
whether any of the files "makefile.sio.xrep", "config.info.default" and "config.h.xrep" had been changed).

The next step is to execute "make all" which will compile any source code changes that affects the application
server as well as the FCGI user interface software and various tools that are a part of the software platform.
Attention should be paid to the output of this in order to determine what to do next.

Assuming "ciyam_server" was re-linked then the application server is going to need to be restarted.

If either the "upload" or "ciyam_interface" applications were re-linked by the "make" then the web server will
need to be restarted and then depending upon which of them was rebuilt one of the following batch/script files
will need to be executed (once for each application with Windows users omitting the "./"):

./install_fcgi upload <app dir>
./install_fcgi ciyam_interface <app dir>

For the second of these batch/script files there may be other files required to be included after "<app dir>".
One possibility is that the file "ciyam_interface.txt" has changed (check the repository changes record) while
others are any ".htms" files that have changed. An example with a few of these is as follows:

./install_fcgi ciyam_interface meta ciyam_interface.txt identity.htms ciyam_interface.htms

It should be noted that if the web server was restarted then any browser tabs for any application will need to
be closed.

If the file "ciyam_interface.js.xrep" had been updated then run the "install_fcgi_js" script for each existing
application. An example is as follows:

./install_fcgi_js Meta meta

It should be noted that changes to the "ciyam_interface.js" will often require all end-users to perform a hard
refresh of the browser for every application being used.

Possible Changes to Standard Specifications
-------------------------------------------

It is possible that one or more of the standard source code templates was changed and this can be detected via
the repository changes record by looking for any "*.spec.xrep" or "ciyam_class.cpp.xrep.outline" file updates.

Assuming such changes were found then the following script should be executed from the "src" directory:

./construct @packages.lst ciyam_class.cpp.xrep

It should be noted that assuming the above does indicate that it has changed "ciyam_class.cpp.xrep" then it is
recommended that all existing applications should be "re-generated" (which is described later). The reason for
this being that the changes made to the standard specifications may include bug fixes that would otherwise not
be included.

Changes to the Standard Specification Types
-------------------------------------------

Along with potential changes to the standard specifications it is possible that changes might have occurred in
the standard specification types. Any such changes are identified in the repository changes record if the file
"Meta_init_std.cin" has changed.

Assuming that this has occurred then the "Meta" application needs to be "restored" which can be performed with
the following script (run again from the "src" directory).

./restore Meta

It should be noted that this script performs the "construct" step described above as well (so there is no need
to explicitly issue the "construct" if running this one).

Regenerating Applications
-------------------------

Assuming that there were changes to either the standard specifications or standard specification types then it
is recommended that all existing applications should be regenerated (after "./restore Meta" if that was needed
to be executed).

To be certain that changes are not missed it is recommended to delete all of the applications ".sav" files and
this can be done using the following:

rm <app name>*.sav

After removing the ".sav" files the following script (run from the "src" directory) perform the re-generate:

./generate <app name>

(repeat both of these commands for each application)

Assuming any changes to the application source files are reported then the application should be rebuilt which
can be done with another "make all" (do after re-generating all applications).

Each application that is re-linked should then also be "restored" such as the following example shows:

./restore Sample

Reconstructing Meta
-------------------

Assuming that one or more ".package.bun.gz" files were changed then verify if the packages that have been thus
updated have been used by any application (if not then it no issue although if a package type that hasn't been
used had been installed then it should be removed and re-installed in "Meta").

Unfortunately package changes often will not be able to be used by existing applications as they might include
changes that alter the model artifacts that the package provides. For a legacy application if "manual upgrade"
notes have been provided then those instructions should be followed before issuing the following command which
will update the package source templates and other details:

./unbundle -q <name>.package

If there are no "manual upgrade" notes then it would be best to simply not do the above as it is possible that
an existing system might otherwise end up becoming unusable.

In the case of the applications being only "demo" ones (and can be discarded without any problem) then use the
following:

./reconstruct_meta

It should be noted (the batch/script issues a warning) that this destroys all existing applications along with
their model artifacts (i.e. you'll need to re-create your applications from scratch).

If changes were made to "Meta.fcgi.sio" then these will be also applied when "reconstruct_meta" is executed.

If changes were made to either "autoscript.sio.default" or "manuscript.sio.default" then these will be applied
when "reconstruct_meta" is executed as well.

If changes were made to the "ciyam_server.sio.default" file then these will need to be manually applied (which
should rarely occur and normally would be optional to apply anyway).

